Data Science has become a core function in many firms today, driving innovation and new data-intensive business and operating models. This project will demonstrate how data and data science offers unprecedented opportunities to organizations in running their business, focusing on project planning capabilities. In this project, you will be exposed to concepts related to business operations and an in depth understanding of the role of data and predictions in these operations.

In particular, can project success or failure (defined by budgetary or temporal constraints) be predicted ahead of time, given a variety of project features? Many businesses operate without a reliable predictor of project success, and therefore waste time and money due to mismanagement. This project addresses a real-world business need with data, and will help managers better plan their business operations.

Dr. Yael Grushka-Cockayne is Visiting Associate Professor of Business Administration, Harvard Business School. Associate Professor Grushka-Cockayne's research and teaching activities focus on data science, analytics, forecasting, decision analysis, project management, and behavioral decision-making. Yael is an award-winning teacher and in 2014 was named one of "21 Thought-Leader Professors" in Data Science. At HBS Yael teaches the required Technology and Operations Management course and an elective course on Business Analytics. She has been teaching in the Harvard Business Analytics Program, powered by 2U, since 2018. Previously, Yael taught courses on Decision Analysis, Project Management, and Data Science in Business. Yael's "Fundamentals of Project Planning and Management" Coursera MOOC had over 200,000 enrolled, across 200 countries worldwide.

Before starting her academic career, she worked in San Francisco as a marketing director of an ERP company. As an expert in the areas of project management, she has served as a consultant to international firms in the aerospace and pharmaceutical industries. Yael is an Associate Editor at Management Science, Operation Research, and Decision Analysis. Education: B.Sc., Ben-Gurion University; MSc, London School of Economics; Ph.D., MRes, London Business School